##Introduction
_So far this is pulled from my proposal, likely will need to expand as the thesis comes together._

The Puget Sound region is experiencing rapid human population growth in the city of Seattle and the surrounding area with a projected 1.2 million additional residents by 2040 (Washington State OFM 2012). This increasing population and urbanization leads to stress in freshwater systems from a variety of anthropogenic influences including: structural changes to habitat, temperature effects from increased runoff and reduced canopy cover, flow changes, and an increased presence of toxicants both from point and non-point sources (Konrad and Booth 2005). Physical and chemical changes affect the biota within these urban streams at varying scales ranging from the individual to population; creating complex interactions that present challenges for correctly characterizing and monitoring the impact on species utilizing these freshwater habitats. Assessing the urban impact from water quality changes is particularly difficult owing in part to the sheer number of different chemicals present in the environment (Hamilton et al. 2004), differential timing of their entry into waterways (Lee et al. 2002), and technological limitations in quantification (Ellis 2006).   Water quality in Pacific Northwest streams is routinely monitored by federal, state, county, and municipal agencies using continuous measures of water chemistry such as pH, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, nutrient levels, and discrete measures of toxic pollutants.  Monitoring biological measures of ecosystem health is carried out using measures of species assemblages, such as the Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) (Karr 1991). Currently, ecosystem health is determined from the comparisons of these species assemblage to a reference condition. IBIs for fish and benthic invertebrates are widely used in the Pacific Northwest (Whittier et al. 2007, Mebane 2003, Morley and Karr 2002, Harris and Silveira 1999). Correlations drawn between IBI metrics and water quality measures are used as a metric to assess potential impacts from anthropogenic pollution. While these IBIs have been successful at identifying general patterns of ecosystem impact from toxic chemicals (Dickson et al. 1992), they aren’t capable of mechanistically linking specific components of water quality (physical or chemical) to biological harm and health impacts to the individual are left unquantified (Landis et al. 2011). With the advent of modern molecular tools, it’s possible to move towards assessing an individual’s biological response to contaminants present in their environment (Hook et al. 2014), thus mechanistically linking chemical stress to individual health. Little consensus currently exists on a method to screen for biological response to toxicants in a holistic sense that can indicate direct biological exposure from all potential chemicals in a system. With the increasing need to monitor our freshwater streams due to urbanization (Hughes et al. 2014), tools that can directly measure exposure in individuals would benefit the understanding and identification of stress in these urban streams for the investigation of impacts to a specific family or species of animal.In the Pacific Northwest salmon have and continue to be the focus of intense study and interest, owing to both their cultural and commercial significance. Billions of dollars have and continues to go toward salmon recovery, conservation efforts, and research (Lackey, 2013). Conservation and restoration efforts in the region seek to improve habitat and reproductive success of salmon. In 2014 King County alone began 23 new projects to improve small stream habitat for salmon (King County 2014). Despite these large scale efforts, few direct tools are routinely utilized for monitoring the health of juvenile salmonids with regards to toxicant exposure. More generally, the tools that do exist for measuring toxicant effect in natural populations are finding limited use in the field (Hook et al. 2014). Salmon, therefore, are the focus of this proposal. They serve the dual purpose of designing a stress and molecular monitoring tool for a commonly found family of fish in our region’s urban streams that is also applicable to monitoring the success of specific restoration projects. 	Coho (Oncorhynchus kisutch) and cutthroat (Oncorhynchus clarkii) salmon are intended as the target species. Coho inhabit small to medium sized Puget Sound lowland streams (the focus of the USGS study) where they spend roughly a year rearing before they out-migrate, and at least regionally, rarely stay longer (Sandercock 1991).  Cutthroat also rear in these streams and will spend most of their life moving in and out of these small systems. These life history traits result in fish that will integrate the effects of toxicants over similar periods of time, thus allowing for better comparison of toxicant exposure between sites and for measuring integrative effects of contaminants throughout the first year of growth. Finally, the juvenile life stage is of great interest because it is often the most sensitive period of an organism to toxicant stress (Hutchinson et al. 1998) and previous work has shown that juvenile coho are sensitive to toxicants (McIntyre et al. 2012 and Barbee et al. 2008). 	This proposal seeks to provide a comprehensive monitoring assessment of salmonid health due to this strong emphasis on conserving and protecting salmonids in the Pacific Northwest and the increasing threats from population growth in the region. The focus is on small urban perennial streams that serve as important rearing and spawning habitat for fish and are often the most heavily impacted by urban growth. This fish health assessment attempts to be comprehensive by measuring the direct impact of contaminants to salmonids using modern molecular tools, observable impacts from disease, and fully characterizing growth conditions in each stream. In addition to informing the current study, once developed, these tools can be used by local, state, and federal agencies in continued regional monitoring. ObjectivesDuring the spring of 2015 the US geological Survey National Water Quality Assessment program characterized stream quality in the Pacific Northwest (VanMetre et al. 2015). The program’s goals were to assess both water and habitat quality in small urban streams and evaluate anthropogenic impacts. In addition to standard measures of chemical concentration and physical habitat assessment, the program aimed to better assess anthropogenic impact on biota living within these streams. The tools proposed here attempt to integrate these measures of habitat quality with their direct impact on fish rearing in these streams by measuring the health of salmonids.One of the primary goals of the 2015 USGS NAQWA study was to complete a fish health assessment to determine if urbanization and anthropogenic pollution are impacting salmonid species. The main questions of this research are: •	To determine if increasing urbanization and anthropogenic pollution are causing impacts to salmon health?	•	Can we account for (distinguish between) anthropogenic and natural (near-term) influences on juvenile salmonid growth?•	Can we mechanistically link toxicant exposure and impacts to stage specific growth?To answer these questions, I propose three tiers of assessment to quantitatively determine the health of salmonids in these urban streams (Fig. 1):  1) the use of a field based quantitative necropsy screening; 2) assessment of near-term growth conditions at each stream using a bioenergetics framework; 3) next generation sequencing techniques to directly assess exposure to contaminants by quantification of differential expression of key detoxification genes.