##Methods

Drift SamplingInvertebrate drift sampling was conducted at all sites. Sampling occurred during the middle of the day, which has been shown to be less variable between sites (Wall et al. 2015). Drift was collected three times during the growing season: during initial fish sampling, half way through the summer season, and during the final fish collection in September. The sampling pattern followed that of the overall study design, with all 15 sites sampled in June, and only the 6 long-term sites in mid- and late-summer. Sampling was conducted in each stream with a 250 um mesh net constructed into a 3-pannel design. Each net had a 1x1 foot opening. Nets were placed in the thalweg of the river. The nets were placed so that the opening was at least 1 inch above the water, to collect floating terrestrial insects, and 1 inch off the bottom, to prevent benthic invertebrates from crawling into the net. Water velocity was measured in front of each of the three panels at a point roughly centered in front of the net using a Marsh-McBernny velocity meter both at initial deployment and when the nets were pulled. Deployment time varied, averaging around 3 hours during the June deployments and 1 hour during both August and September. Once nets were pulled, collected drift was washed down to the cod-end of each net, and placed into separate jars and preserved in 95% ethanol. 	Drift samples were processed in the lab. Each sample was separated into two size fractions, 500-1000 um and >1000 um, to simplify processing. Invertebrates were separated from debris using dissection microscopes and sorted down to the order level. Both counts and blotted wet weights were obtained for each order. This was further condensed into 3 major energetic categories based on work of McCarthy et al (2009) to use as inputs for the Wisconsin bioenergetics model.Diet ProcessingRemaining fish tissue after liver and otolith removal were kept on ice in the field and later kept frozen at -4C. In order to identify diet contents, fish were removed from the freezer and allowed to partially thaw. Stomachs were removed under a dissection scope, carefully cut open, and contents removed. Stomach contents were sorted based on digested and and undigested material. Undigested invertebrates were identified at the order level and blotted-wet weights obtained. All digested material was weighed in aggregate. Diet samples composition will be compared to drift samples in each stream to determine if there was evidence of fish selectively feeding.Water TemperatureWater temperature was measured using Hobo instream loggers. Loggers were placed prior to the USGS sampling event during site visits in the fall/winter of 2014/2015. Temperature was logged on an hourly timescale. Averages for each day of deployment were calculated and will be used as input for the Wisconsin bioenergetics model.Fish Energetic ContentTo determine the average energetic content of fish from each site, 5 whole body extra fish from each site will be pooled, thawed and ground using a blender to fully homogenize all tissue. An initial wet weight will be obtained from this fish slurry and then dried in a drying oven to determine percent moisture. Dried tissue will be processed in triplicate in the bomb calorimeter to determine caloric content of fish from each site. Sites will be processed separately to determine if a difference exists between them. The resulting calorie content will be used as input for the energetics model. Otolith Analysis and Fish Age StructureExtracted otoliths were cleaned with 100% ethanol to remove any organic tissue, and then kept dry until analysis. Otolith structure analysis was completed by the USGS Western Fisheries otolith lab. One otolith from each fish (right or left), was first mounted in an epoxy resin and then sanded and polished to prepare for imaging. Polished otoliths were imaged using Image-Pro and analyzed to give an age at emergence.  Additionally, the width between counted increment lines was measured. Regression models were run taking observed final weights and average increment width for all individual samples. This regression allowed for an estimate of growth per mm. Using this average, the growth rate for each individual was back-calculated, giving a rate of growth for each individual over the time since emergence. Emergence dates and growth rates will be used to analyze growth between streams with the Wisconsin energetics model. Bioenergetics modeling and data analysisModeling will be conducted using the Rstudio and the recently completed Wisconsin bioenergetics script. The model will be parameterized with a combination of empirically derived constants for adult coho and juvenile rainbow trout (Tyler and Bolduc 2008; Willey 2004). The model will be iteratively run per individual at each site based on an initial weight at emergence of .2g and their final measured wet weight. Comparisons between sites will use a standard parametric ANOVA followed by a Dunn’s post hoc test to determine statistically relevant differences in consumption rates. To determine stress condition in fish, sites will be identified that have low consumption rates as compared to reference streams. This will be further compared to both biomass of invertebrate prey items and and fish densities calculated from electroshocking of the streams to account for other impacts on fish growth. 3) Water Quality and Toxicogentic Biomarkers In order to use a method that can be both broad in its scope and specific in its diagnosis, differential gene expression using transcriptomics will be used as a biomarker screening for potential toxicant exposure (Qian Xi et al. 2014). Current transcriptome sequencing technologies allow the exploration of a multitude of genetic pathways from a single sample. Many of these pathways are highly sensitive and unique to chemical classes (e.g. metals, pesticides, hydrocarbons, etc.). When gene expression data is paired with water chemistry characterization, specific chemicals that are directly affecting fish at a sub-lethal level can be directly linked, resulting in an early indicator of chemical exposure (Roberts et al. 2005). The assessment of coho and cutthroat for gene expression will use livers collected during the USGS regional assessment. Livers were preserved in RNAlater solution and stored at -20º C resulting in minimal RNA degradation (Olsvik et al. 2007). The methods are broken down into four steps: high coverage transcriptome sequencing (RNAseq) for 6 individuals from 4 sites spanning the gradient of urban land use, differential expression analysis of sequenced individuals, targeted gene expression analysis for remaining samples using Nanostring Sequencing, and data analysis of targeted genes with water chemistry. Methods described are adapted from Blazer et al. 2015 and Qian Xi et al. 2014 with additional insight unique to the study provided by University of Washington Geneticist Dr. Steven Roberts (personal communication).RNAseq and Nanostring SequencingRNAseq is a technology that allows for reading millions of lines of genetic code from a single sample generating a large dataset detailing gene expression for each individual sequenced. For this analysis RNA was isolated with RNAzol®RT using the manufacture methods (Molecular Research Center Inc. 2015). RNA was transferred to the genetic core facility at the University of Washington, who handled library construction and sequencing using the Illumina NextSeq 500 system at a 150-bp paired-end read length. After sequencing, a de novo assembly and annotation of the transcriptome was conducted using Trinity and Blast respectively. Currently individual samples are being mapped back to the assembled transcriptome, quantified, and a gene ontology analysis conducted. From this analysis 50-100 differentially expressed genes between sites will be carried forward for Nanostring sequencing on the remaining samples. Selection of target genes is being conducted by comparing a list of previously identified stress related genes (Wiseman et al. 2007) (see table 3 in supplemental material for a detailed list) with those identified as differentially express as compared to samples from a reference stream. Nanostring technology allows for the quantification of up to 800 unique genes of interest based on barcoding technology (Blazer et al. 2015). Barcodes are uniquely designed for each gene of interest and then attached to RNA samples through a reaction process. These unique codesets are proprietarily developed by Nanostring Inc. Once a codeset is developed, the reagents are supplied by the company and a genetic core facility can run each sample. To keep costs and analysis within reason the 50-100 genes showing the highest differentiation in expression identified from RNAseq will be moved forward for analysis. RNA will be isolated from the remaining liver samples prior to transfer to the Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center for Nanostring sequencing using this unique codeset. To check both the Nanostring and RNAseq analysis, RNA material from each submitted sample will be run using qPCR to check the expression of 2-6 specific genes. Although the enumeration of gene expression naturally varies within subsamples of individual tissue samples and methods are not directly comparable, the same pattern of expression should be identifiable between sites (i.e. Up- or down- regulated) at roughly the same magnitude. This check will help to assure that sequencing coverage in RNAseq was sufficient and that differential expression in the Nanostring analysis is accurate.Water Quality	Water quality samples were analyzed at all 15 fish health sites in the weeks leading up to fish collections. Surface water samples were taken to measure for common use pesticides, nutrients, pharmaceuticals and waste water indicators. Sediments were sampled for organochlorines, PAHs, PCBs, and hydrocarbons. At the six fish health sites sampled throughout the summer of 2015, passive water quality samplers were used to quantify pesticides and metals. The results from this assessment of anthropogenic chemical pollution will be made available by the US Geological Survey for use in data analysis alongside the toxicogenetic biomarker assessment.  The methods for the collection and processing of water quality samples are outside the scope of this proposal, but can be found in the National field manual for the collection of water-quality data (US Geological Survey, variously dated).Data Analysis Expression for individual genes included in the Nanostring assay will be averaged across individual fish collected at each stream and normalized to chosen reference genes included in the Nanostring analysis. The use of reference genes that should be universally expressed at similar rates across individuals allows for correcting gene expression based on the amount of starting tissue (Urbatzka et al. 2013). Comparisons between sites will use a non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA followed by a Dunn’s post hoc test to determine statistically relevant differential expression for genes of interest.  Natural variation in expression between individuals from the same site is expected and gene expression normalization techniques to account for differences in size and age will be explored but is currently not well represented in the literature. The biological function of genes with significantly different expression between sites will be compared to chemistry data from the USGS regional study to determine what chemicals are potentially driving gene response. This analysis will use non-parametric multivariate techniques to determine relationships between observed gene expression and the concentration of chemicals observed. 