##Sources
 *	Ankley, G., R. Bennett, R. Erickson, D. Hoff, M. Hornung, R. Johnson, D. Mount, J. Nichols, C. Russom, P. Schmieder, J. Serrrano, J. Tietge, and D. Villeneuve. 2010. Adverse outcome pathways: A conceptual framework to support ecotoxicology research and risk assessment. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry 29(3):730-741. *	Barbee, G., J. Barich, B. Duncan, J. Bickham, C. Matson, C. Hintze, R. Autenrieth, G. Zhou, T. McDonald, L. Cizmas, D. Norton, and K. Donnelly. 2008. In situ biomonitoring of PAH-contaminated sediments using juvenile coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch). Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety 71(2):454-464. * Beauchamp, D. 2009. Bioenergetic ontogeny: linking climate and mass-specific feeding to life-cycle growth and survival of salmon. American Fisheries Society Symposium. 70:1–19. * Beyers, D.W., J.A. Rice, and W.H. Clement. 19991. Evaluating biological significance of chemical exposure to fish using a bioenergetics-based stressor-response model. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences. 56:823–829. * Beyers, D.W., JA Rice, W.H. Clements, and C.J. Henry. 19992. Estimating physiological cost of chemical exposure: integrating energetics and stress to quantify toxic effects in fish. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences. 56:814–822. * Blazer, V.S., P.M. Mazik, L.R. Iwanowicz, R. Braham, C. Hahn, H.L. Walsh, and A. Sperry. 2014. Monitoring of wild fish health at selected sites in the Great Lakes Basin—methods and preliminary results. U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 2014-1027.  *	Chipps, S.R. and D.H. Wahl. 2008. Bioenergetics Modeling in the 21st Century: Reviewing New Insights and Revisiting Old Constraints. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society. 137:298–313 *	Dickson, K. L., W.T. Waller, J.H. Kennedy, and L.P. Ammann. 1992. Assessing the relationship between ambient toxicity and instream biological response. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry 11(9):1307-1322. *	Ellis, J. B. 2006. Pharmaceutical and personal care products (PPCPs) in urban receiving waters. Environmental Pollution. 144(1): 184-189. *	Goede, R.W. and B.A. Barton. 1990. Organismic indices and an autopsy-based assessment as indicators of health and condition of fish. American Fisheries Society Symposium. 8:93-108. *	Hamilton, P.A., T.L. Miller, and D.N. Myers. 2004. Water quality in the Nation's streams and aquifers - Overview of selected findings, 1991-2001. U.S. Geological Survey Circular 1265. *	Hanson, P.C., T.B. Johnson, D.E. Schindler, and J.F. Kitchell. 1997. Fish Bioenergetics 3.0 for Windows. Center for Limnology, University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Wisconsin Sea Grant Institute. WISCU-T-97–001. *	Harris, J., and R. Silveira. 1999. Large-scale assessments of river health using an Index of Biotic Integrity with low-diversity fish communities. Freshwater Biology 41(2):235-252. *	Hartman K.K. and J.F. Kitchell. 2008. Bioenergetics Modeling: Progress since the 1992 Symposium. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society. 137:216–223. *	Hook, S., E. Gallagher, and G. Batley. 2014. The role of biomarkers in the assessment of aquatic ecosystem health. Integr Environ Assess Manag 10(3):327-341. *	Hughes, R.M., S. Dunham, K.G. Maas-Hebner, J.A. Yeakley, C. Schreck, M. Harte, N. Molina, C.C. Shock, V.W. Kaczynski, and J. Schaeffer. 2014. A review of urban water body challenges and approaches: rehabilitation and remediation. Fisheries. 39(1):18-29. *	Hutchinson, T., J. Solbe, and P. Kloepper-Sams. 1998. Analysis of the ecetoc aquatic toxicity (EAT) database III — Comparative toxicity of chemical substances to different life stages of aquatic organisms. Chemosphere 36(1):129-142. *	Karr, J. R. 1991. Biological integrity: a long-neglected aspect of water resource management. Ecological applications 1(1):66-84. *	Kim, J. H., J.S. Leong, B.F. Koop, and R.H. Devlin. 2015. Multi-tissue transcriptome profiles for coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), a species undergoing rediploidization following whole-genome duplication. Marine genomics. In Press.  *	King County. 2014. Small habitat restoration program. Annual Report. Seattle, WA. *	Konrad, C. P. and D.B. Booth. 2005. Hydrologic changes in urban streams and their ecological significance. American Fisheries Society Symposium 47:157-177.  *	Lackey, R. T. 2013. Saving wild salmon: a 165 year policy conundrum. In Dubach Workshop: Science and Scientists in the Contemporary Policy Process.  *	Landis, W. G., R Sofield, M.H. Yu. 2003. Introduction to environmental toxicology: impacts of chemicals upon ecological systems. CRC Press, Florida. *	Lee, J. H., K.W. Bang, L.H. Ketchum, J.S. Choe, and M.J. Yu. 2002. First flush analysis of urban storm runoff. Science of the Total Environment 293(1): 163-175. *	McCarthy, S. G., J.J. Duda, J.M. Emlen, G.R. Hodgson, and D.A. Beauchamp. 2009. Linking habitat quality with trophic performance of steelhead along forest gradients in the South Fork Trinity River watershed, California. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 138(3): 506-521. *	McIntyre, J., D. Baldwin, D. Beauchamp, and N. Scholz. 2012. Low-level copper exposures increase visibility and vulnerability of juvenile coho salmon to cutthroat trout predators. Ecological Applications 22(5):1460-1471. *	Mebane, C., T. Maret, and R. Hughes. 2003. An Index of Biological Integrity (IBI) for Pacific Northwest Rivers. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 132(2):239-261. *	Molecular Research Center, Inc. 2015. RNAzol®RT Brochure. Cincinnati, OH *	Morley, S.A. and J.R. Karr. 2002. Assessing and restoring the health of urban streams in the Puget Sound basin. Conservation Biology 16(6):1498-1509. *	Nault, R., S. Al-Hameedi, and T.W. Moon. 2012. Effects of polychlorinated biphenyls on whole animal energy mobilization and hepatic cellular respiration in rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. Chemosphere, 87(9):1057–1062. *	Ney, JJ. 1993. Bioenergetics Modeling Today: Growing Pains on the Cutting Edge. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society. 122(1):736–748. *	Olsvik, P. A., K.K. Lie, and E.M. Hevrøy. 2007. Do anesthetics and sampling strategies affect transcription analysis of fish tissues?. BMC molecular biology 8(1):48. *	Qian, X., Y. Ba, Q. Zhuang, and G. Zhong. 2014. RNA-Seq Technology and Its Application in Fish Transcriptomics. OMICS: A Journal of Integrative Biology 18(2):98-110. *	Rice, J.A. 1990. Bioenergetics modeling approaches to evaluation of stress in fishes. American Fisheries Society Symposium. 8:80–92. *	Roberts, A.P., JT Oris, G.A. Burton, and W.H. Clements. 2005. Gene expression in caged fish as a first‐tier indicator of contaminant exposure in streams. Environmental toxicology and chemistry, 24(12): 3092-3098. *	Rowe, G.L., Jr., K. Belitz, C.R. Demas, H.I. Essaid, R.J. Gilliom, P.A. Hamilton, A.B. Hoos, C.J. Lee, M.D. Munn, and D.W. Wolock. 2013. Design of cycle 3 of the National Water-Quality Assessment Program, 2013–23: Part 2: Science plan for improved water-quality information and management. U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 2013–1160. *	Sandercock, F.K. 1991. Life history of Coho Salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch). Pages 397-445 in Groot, C., and L. Margolis editors. Pacific salmon life histories. UBC Press, Vancouver. *	Spurgeon, D., O. Jones, J. Dorne, C. Svendsen, S. Swain, and S. Stürzenbaum. 2010. Systems toxicology approaches for understanding the joint effects of environmental chemical mixtures. Science of The Total Environment 408(18):3725-3734. *	Tyler, J. A. and M.B. Bolduc. 2008. Individual variation in bioenergetic rates of young-of-year rainbow trout. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 137(1): 314-323. *	Urbatzka, R., S. Galante-Oliveira, E. Rocha, L.F.C. Castro, and I. Cunha. 2013. Normalization strategies for gene expression studies by real-time PCR in a marine fish species, Scophthalmus maximus. Marine genomics 10:17-25.  *	U.S. Geological Survey. variously dated. National field manual for the collection of water-quality data: U.S. Geological Survey Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations, book 9 chaps: A1-A10. *	VanMetre, P.C., J.L. Morace, and R. Sheibley. 2015. The Pacific northwest stream quality assessment. U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 2015–3020, 2 p.  *	Wall, C. E., N. Bouwes, J.M. Wheaton, W.C. Saunders, and S.N. Bennett. 2015. Net rate of energy intake predicts reach-level steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) densities in diverse basins from a large monitoring program. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 73(999): 1-11.  *	Washington State Office of Financial Management (OFM). 2014. County growth management population projections by age and sex: 2010-2040. Forecasting Division. Olympia, Washington.  *	Whittier, T., R. Hughes, J. Stoddard, G. Lomnicky, D. Peck, and A. Herlihy. 2007. A structured approach for developing indices of biotic integrity: three examples from streams and rivers in the Western USA. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 136(3):718-735. *	Willey, W. S. 2004. Energetic response of juvenile coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) to varying water temperature regimes in northern California streams (Doctoral dissertation, Humboldt State University). *	Wiseman, S. 2007. Gene expression pattern in the liver during recovery from an acute stressor in rainbow trout. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part D Genomics Proteomics 234-44. 